index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

# Delotha I.T. Consulting

Delotha Consulting is a very small company made up of just me, [Ryan Loudfoot](https://github.com/Elyrith){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, for now. I'm an amateur Linux system administrator and programmer. I help small companies manage their Linux servers using [Salt](https://saltproject.io/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/), and sometimes [Puppet](https://www.puppet.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}. I also help them monitor their infrastructure using [Zabbix](https://www.zabbix.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, but I used to use [Nagios](https://www.nagios.org/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.

I taught myself the ropes of system administration, finding joy in streamlining tasks for better efficiency. Thanks to the power of software above and picking up Python along the way, I've significantly boosted my effectiveness. Keeping things simple is key for me, making sure my home network and business setup stay easy to manage.

For my home network, I learned how to configure switches with VLANs, access ports and trunks, and a small variety of other required pieces of info to keep my IoT devices, security cameras, and other networks secure, while still having access to the other devices and networks they need. I use [pfSense](https://www.pfsense.org/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} along with TP-Link network equipment to try to get as close to enterprise-grade equipment and processes without paying enterprise prices. I also manage a Raspberry Pi running [Pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} for DNS ad blocking network-wide.

---

My Projects:

I use Git (GitHub and private non-GitHub repos) to manage my own company and home infrastructure, such as:

- Salt master and salt pillar configurations. (Private)
- Puppet server configurations. (Private)
- Ansible configurations. (Private)
- A very basic [custom backup script](https://github.com/Delotha/server-scripts){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, but the configuration scripts for it are managed privately with Salt.
- A [basic Discord bot in Python](https://github.com/Elyrith/py-discordbot){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, which I used to help me learn Python and accessing APIs, while offering communication tools for my friends and I about when we are playing games so we can get more of us together at once.
- An automation script to automatically deploy my customer's application for their new client. This Python program utilizes the customer's ticketing system to get the new client's info, then creates a database, website files, and Apache hosting files. (Private)
- [Two](https://github.com/Elyrith/project-zomboid-guns-blazin){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} [mods](https://github.com/Elyrith/project-zomboid-everything-weighs-nothing){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} for a game called [Project Zomboid](https://store.steampowered.com/app/108600/Project_Zomboid/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.

Commit message:

Add what I can do to the front page

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# What I Can Do For You

- Set up, troubleshoot, or improve your home or small company network infrastructure, including implementing security best-practices and following the Keep-it-Simple mindset
- Set up and grow your smart home using [Home Assistant](https://https://www.home-assistant.io){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, to allow you to collect data and control your lights and other devices remotely or using automation, and grow your smart home at your own pace and budget
- Linux systems administration, including private and public cloud infrastructure
- Basic I.T. disaster recovery and backup planning

---

## Company Info

Delotha Consulting is a very small company made up of just me, [Ryan Loudfoot](https://github.com/Elyrith){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, for now.

I'm an amateur Linux system administrator and programmer. I help small companies manage their Linux servers using [Salt](https://saltproject.io/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/), and sometimes [Puppet](https://www.puppet.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}. I also help them monitor their infrastructure using [Zabbix](https://www.zabbix.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, but I used to use [Nagios](https://www.nagios.org/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.

I taught myself the ropes of system administration, finding joy in streamlining tasks for better efficiency. Thanks to the power of software above and picking up Python along the way, I've significantly boosted my effectiveness. Keeping things simple is key for me, making sure my home network and business setup stay easy to manage.

For my home network, I learned how to configure switches with VLANs, access ports and trunks, and a small variety of other required pieces of info to keep my IoT devices, security cameras, and other networks secure, while still having access to the other devices and networks they need. I use [pfSense](https://www.pfsense.org/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} along with TP-Link network equipment to try to get as close to enterprise-grade equipment and processes without paying enterprise prices. I also manage a Raspberry Pi running [Pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} for DNS ad blocking network-wide.

---

## My Projects

I use Git (GitHub and private non-GitHub repos) to manage my own company and home infrastructure, such as:

- Salt master and salt pillar configurations. (Private)
- Puppet server configurations. (Private)
- Ansible configurations. (Private)
- A very basic [custom backup script](https://github.com/Delotha/server-scripts){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} (The configuration scripts for it are managed privately with Salt.)
- A [basic Discord bot in Python](https://github.com/Elyrith/py-discordbot){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}, which I used to help me learn Python and accessing APIs, while offering communication tools for my friends and I about when we are playing games so we can get more of us together at once.
- An automation script to automatically deploy my customer's application for their new client. This Python program utilizes the customer's ticketing system to get the new client's info, then creates a database, website files, and Apache hosting files. (Private)
- [Two](https://github.com/Elyrith/project-zomboid-guns-blazin){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} [mods](https://github.com/Elyrith/project-zomboid-everything-weighs-nothing){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} for a game called [Project Zomboid](https://store.steampowered.com/app/108600/Project_Zomboid/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.
